			GIT CLASS 3
GIT RESET: is a command in Git that allows you to move the HEAD and the current branch
pointer to a specific commit, effectively "rewinding" or "resetting" your project's state. It's
commonly used to undo changes or to unstage commits.


COMMANDS:

git reset --hard HEAD~1 --> used to delete the latest commit along
with the changes

git reset --hard HEAD~3 --> used to delete the latest 3commit along
with the changes

git reset --soft HEAD~1 --> used to delete only commits but not
actions/changes

git reset --soft HEAD~3 --> used to delete only latest commits but not
actions/changes


GIT REVERT: is a command that allows you to undo or reverse the changes made in a
previous commit. It creates a new commit that undoes the changes introduced by the
specified commit, effectively taking your code back to a previous state without deleting

git revert commit_id  --> used to delete a particular commit action
and add a new commit for the change


GIT BRANCHES:
A branch represents an independent line of development.
The git branch command lets you create, list, rename, and delete branches.
The default branch name in Git is master.
allows you to work on different features or changes to your code independently, without
affecting the main or other branches.
It's a way to organize and manage your code changes, making it easier to collaborate and
maintain your project.

COMMANDS:

git branch used to see the list of branches
git branch branch-name to create a branch
git checkout branch-name to switch one branch to another
git checkout -b branch-name used to create and switch a branch at a
time
git branch -m old-branch new-branch used to rename a branch
git branch -d branch-name to delete a branch
git branch branch-name deleted-branch-id Used to get deleted branch id
git branch -D branch-name to delete a branch forcefully


The -d option will delete the branch only if it has already been pushed and merged with the
remote branch. Use -D instead if you want to force the branch to be deleted, even if it hasn't
been pushed or merged yet. The branch is now deleted locally.
Now all the things you have done is on your local system.

GIT MERGE:
Git merge is a command used in the Git version control system to combine changes from one
branch.
To merge: git merge branch_name 




